---
layout: page
title: Latent Timbre Synthesis
description: with background image
img: assets/img/lts_full_latent_space_scatter.jpg
importance: 1
category: Audio Synthesis
related_publications: true
authors:
- Kıvanç Tatar: kivanctatar.com
- Daniel Bisig
- Philippe Pasquier
affiliations:
- Chalmers University of Technology, Sweden: chalmers.se
- Zurich University for the Arts, Switzerland: zhdk.ch
- Simon Fraser University: sfu.ca
---
Latent Timbre Synthesis is a new audio synthesis method using deep learning. The synthesis method allows composers and sound designers to interpolate and extrapolate between the timbre of multiple sounds using the latent space of audio frames. The implementation includes a fully working application with a graphical user interface, called interpolate_two, which enables practitioners to generate timbres between two audio excerpts of their selection using interpolation and extrapolation in the latent space of audio frames. Our implementation is open source, and we aim to improve the accessibility of this technology by providing a guide for users with any technical background. Our study includes a qualitative analysis where nine composers evaluated the Latent Timbre Synthesis and the interpolate_two application within their practices.

The visualizations below illustrate a latent space generated by a Variational Autoencoder. On the right, the green and red dots represent latent vectors of audio frames of two audio examples from the dataset, while the green is the latent vectors of a synthesized sound generated by interpolating the latent vectors of two original audio files.

<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/lts_full_latent_space_scatter.jpg" title="example image" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/3.jpg" title="example image" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/5.jpg" title="example image" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Caption photos easily. On the left, a road goes through a tunnel. Middle, leaves artistically fall in a hipster photoshoot. Right, in another hipster photoshoot, a lumberjack grasps a handful of pine needles.
</div>

<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/5.jpg" title="example image" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    This image can also have a caption. It's like magic.
</div>

You can also put regular text between your rows of images, even citations {% cite einstein1950meaning %}.
Say you wanted to write a bit about your project before you posted the rest of the images.
You describe how you toiled, sweated, _bled_ for your project, and then... you reveal its glory in the next row of images.

<div class="row justify-content-sm-center">
    <div class="col-sm-8 mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid path="assets/img/6.jpg" title="example image" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm-4 mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid path="assets/img/11.jpg" title="example image" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    You can also have artistically styled 2/3 + 1/3 images, like these.
</div>

The code is simple.
Just wrap your images with `<div class="col-sm">` and place them inside `<div class="row">` (read more about the <a href="https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.4/layout/grid/">Bootstrap Grid</a> system).
To make images responsive, add `img-fluid` class to each; for rounded corners and shadows use `rounded` and `z-depth-1` classes.
Here's the code for the last row of images above:

{% raw %}

```html
<div class="row justify-content-sm-center">
  <div class="col-sm-8 mt-3 mt-md-0">
    {% include figure.liquid path="assets/img/6.jpg" title="example image" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
  </div>
  <div class="col-sm-4 mt-3 mt-md-0">
    {% include figure.liquid path="assets/img/11.jpg" title="example image" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
  </div>
</div>
```

{% endraw %}
