---
layout: distill
title: Raw Audio VAE
description: Sound Design Strategies for Latent Audio Space Explorations Using Deep Learning Architectures
img: assets/img/publication_preview/smc-2023-network.jpg
category: Audio Synthesis
related_publications: true
date: 2020-10-20
featured: true

authors:
  - name: Kıvanç Tatar
    url: "https://www.kivanctatar.com"
    affiliations:
      name: Chalmers University of Technology
  - name: Kelsey Cotton
    url: "https://www.kelseycotton.com"
    affiliations: 
      name: Chalmers University of Technology
  - name: Daniel Bisig
    url: 
    affiliations: 
      name: Zurich University of the Arts

bibliography: rawaudio.bib
toc: true

---
## Description
The research in Deep Learning applications in sound and music computing have gathered an interest in the recent years; however, there is still a missing link between these new technologies and on how they can be incorporated into real-world artistic practices. In this work, we explore a well-known Deep Learning architecture called Variational Autoencoders (VAEs). These architectures have been used in many areas for generating latent spaces where data points are organized so that similar data points locate closer to each other. Previously, VAEs have been used for generating latent timbre spaces or latent spaces of symbolic muic excepts. Applying VAE to audio features of timbre reuires a vocoder to transform the timbre generated by the network to an audio signal, which is computationally expensive. In this work<d-cite key="tatar_sound_2023"></d-cite>, we apply VAEs to raw audio data directly while bypassing audio feature extraction. This approach allows the practitioners to use any audio recording while giving flexibility and control over the aesthetics through dataset curation. The lower computation time in audio signal generation allows the raw audio approach to be incorporated into real-time applications. In this work, we propose three strategies to explore latent spaces of audio and timbre for sound design applications. By doing so, our aim is to initiate a conversation on artistic approaches and strategies to utilize latent audio spaces in sound and music practices.
## Architecture

<div>
    {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/publication_preview/smc-2023-network.jpg" title="The Deep Learning architecture in Raw Music From Free Movements" %}
</div>
<div class="caption">
    The Deep Learning architecture in Raw Audio VAE.
</div>

<div class="fake-img l-page-outset">
    {% include figure.liquid path="assets/img/smc-2023-interpolation.png" title="Latent Space Visualisation" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
</div>
<div class="caption">
   Interpolation Strategies
</div>

## Examples

Two different datasets were employed for training, named improvisation dataset and sonification dataset. The improvisation dataset consists of pose sequences and audio that have been recorded while a dancer was freely improvising to a given music. The dancer is an expert with a specialisation in contemporary dance and improvisation. The music consists of short excerpts of royalty free music including experimental electronic music, free jazz, and contemporary classic. The pose sequences have been acquired using the markerless motion capture system (The Captury ) in the iLab at MotionBank, University for Applied Research, Mainz. The recording is 10 minutes in length which corresponds to a sequence of 30000 poses. Each pose consists of 29 joints whose relative orientations are represented by quaternions.

The sonification dataset contains the same pose sequences as the improvisation dataset. The audio of this dataset was created afterwards, through sonification, employing a very simple sound synthesis consisting of two sine oscillators controlled by the dancer’s hands. The frequency and amplitude of each oscillator are proportional to the height and velocity of the corresponding hand, respectively. The authors created this dataset to verify the performance of RAMFEM.

## Resources

### Code
<i class="fa-brands fa-github"></i> <a>https://github.com/ktatar/rawaudiovae</a>

### Artworks

The artwork titled [Coding the Latent](https://kivanctatar.com/Coding-the-Latent)  by [Kıvanç Tatar](https://kivanctatar.com/) uses three interpolation strategies presented in this paper, within a live coding environment, performed at Kubus, ZKM, Karlsruhe.

## Acknowledgements


This work was partially supported by the Wallenberg AI, Autonomous Systems and Software Program – Humanities and Society (WASP-HS) funded by the Marianne and Marcus Wallenberg Foundation and the Marcus and Amalia Wallenberg Foundation. Additionally, this research was previously supported by the Swiss National Science Foundation, and Canada Council for the Arts.

<div>
  <div class="row">
      <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
          {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/logos/wasphs.png" title="wasp-hs logo" %}
      </div>
      <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
          {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/logos/snf.png" title="Swiss National Science Foundation logo" %}
      </div>
      <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
          {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/logos/cca.jpg" title="Canada Council for the Arts" %}
      </div>
  </div>
</div>